The custom channels that we defined,
and the edits that we made to
predefined channels in the last sections would not be retroactive.
There are two types of
retroactive channel groupings that we can define in Google Analytics.
A view level channel grouping would require edit access,
whereas a Google Analytics user level channel grouping
would only require read and analyze access.
To define a channel grouping at
the view level that everyone who access the view could see,
we could click into Channel Grouping,
and now we would click New Channel Grouping,
and here's where we would start the process of defining a channel grouping
at the view level that all users could apply when accessing the view.
To look at defining a channel grouping at the user level,
let's go over to the Google Merchandise Store account.
Let's say that you managed analytics for Google Merchandise Store,
and you wanted to break out traffic from mall.googleplex.com as its own channel.
No problem, we could definitely do that retroactively with a new channel grouping.
Click into admin, and now instead of clicking the Channel Grouping Settings on top,
in the view admin, we'd click Custom Channel Grouping.
Since this channel grouping is in the personal tools and asset section of
the view admin it does only require read and analyze access,
and would only be accessible to the user who created it.
Let's click New Channel Grouping here.
Notice that when we begin to create the channel grouping it is empty.
You have a blank slate to start with.
But what's considered to be normal practice is to recreate
the nine default channels and then create customizations on top of those nine channels.
Fortunately, we don't have to manually recreate all of these channel definitions.
Google Analytics does provide a shortcut.
If we click "Define a new channel",
and let's say that we wanted to create the email channel.
We could select, System Defined Channel matches,
Email, and notice the nine default channels are available as options from this dropdown.
So we do have to recreate the nine channels if that's what we choose,
but we do not have to define the channels at a granular level.
The definitions are encapsulated in these system defined channels.
I'm going to go ahead now and recreate the other eight channels.
Since there is not overlap between the definitions of the nine default channels,
the order of the channels actually does not matter in this case.
So now that we have recreated the nine default channels,
we can start with our customizations.
In this case, we're just going to be adding one new channel for mall.googleplex.com.
We'll click Define New Channel,
call the new channel Googleplex Mall.
Source exactly matches mail.googleplex.com.
Now, of course, it is important in this case that
this channel definition appear before the referral definition or
else the mall.googleplex.com traffic would match
the referral definition and the session would never
reach the Googleplex Mall channel definition.
Click Done. Let's call this channel grouping Default and Googleplex Mall.
Click Save. Now let's check this new channel grouping out in our reports.
We'll go to Acquisition, All Traffic Channels,
and note that we can now apply the Default and Googleplex Mall Channel Grouping,
and also another channel grouping that was defined for us at the View level.
But let's go ahead and apply our Googleplex Mall Channel Grouping,
and now we see Googleplex Mall broken out retroactively.
Similarly, if we went to the Multi-Channel Funnel reports,
which Patrick is going to be discussing in an upcoming lesson,
we see that the Default and Googleplex Mall Channel Grouping
that we defined is available,
as well as the other channel grouping that was defined for us at the View level.
If we go ahead and apply the Googleplex Mall Channel Grouping,
we see in fact Googleplex Mall broken out.
Also if we check out the model comparison tool in the Attribution section,
which Patrick will also be discussing in an upcoming lesson,
we see our channel groupings available here as well.
Now I myself do not have edit rights
to any of the views within the Google Merchandise Store account.
So, I have recreated the Default and Googleplex Mall Channel Grouping in a test account,
where I do have edit access.
Because if I do have edit access what I can do is promote the channel.
What this means is that this personal channel now becomes a view-level channel,
that anyone accessing the view can apply in any of the reports that we just reviewed.
Between the Default Channel Grouping and
the View-level and Individual-user Channel groupings that we've seen in this section,
it can get a little complicated to keep track of what applies where.
This table summarizes that information.
As a final thought,
the New Channel Groupings that we can create at
the View-level and at the GA-User-level are certainly very useful,
especially because they are retroactive.
But they are not considered replacements for customizing
the Default Channel Grouping in the way that makes
the most sense for you and for your organization,
because there are situations in which
the alternative retroactive channel groupings don't apply.
So, make sure that you do customize your default channel grouping,
however, it makes the most sense for you.
As another final note,
even after you customize the default channel grouping,
you don't necessarily have to rename it from Default Channel Grouping
because it still is the default channel grouping
that appears in your reports as the default,
and is available as the default in other contexts even when you have customized it.
So, it is default in multiple ways,
so it's okay to leave the name as Default Channel Grouping,
although you are, of course, free to change the name.